---
title: The COVID Tracking Project
---

# The COVID Tracking Project

Launched in March 2020, the COVID Tracking Project was a volunteer-powered data journalism project to count case and testing information on COVID-19 from every state in country. In this special three-part podcast from Reveal from the Center for Investigative Reporting, you'll learn more about the origins of the project – and why its founders thought it was necessary to fill in the gaps in data reporting.

## Before class

On your own, listen the first two parts of the COVID Tracking Project podcast:

* [COVID Tracking Project Part I](https://revealnews.org/podcast/the-covid-tracking-project-part-1/)
* [COVID Tracking Project Part II](https://revealnews.org/podcast/the-covid-tracking-project-part-2/)

## In class

After students have listened to the podcast on their own, devote all or a portion of the next class to a guided discussion.

Be prepared to discuss all or some of the following questions in class.

## 'Understanding' questions
* Why did the federal government collect data about COVID-19 the way it did?
* What data was missing?
* In what ways did data collection break down between states and the federal government?
* What potential flaws existed in data published by the COVID Tracking Project?

## 'Application' questions
* What surprised you about the government's methodology for tracking the spread of the coronavirus?
* How did the government's systems for tracking COVID-19 compare to the systems you sketched in class?

## 'Evaluation' questions
* How perfect does data have to be to be useful?
* How do the flaws in data collection of COVID-19 impact our understanding of the disease and its impact?
* As data journalists, how important is understanding the system – how data is collected – when reporting on what the data tells us?



